Overview
The authors present an analysis of a person-to-person recommendation network, including 4 million people who made 16 
million recommendations on half a million products. They use a simple stochastic model to explain the propagation of 
recommendations and the cascade sizes.

Algorithm
·The recommendation propagation model
·The recommendation success model

Hypothesis
·The recommendation networks are reflective of the nature of word of mouth advertising, and influence purchasing decisions.
·The networks of different items are highly disconnected.
·The recommendation service is not spreading epidemically.
·There is certain saturation of the number of recommendations for inducing a new purchase.
·People who made a purchase will recommend the product forward in proportion.
·The one makes more recommendations also influence more purchases.

Data
The data comes from a recommendation referral program run by a large retailer. The dataset consists of 15,646,121 
recommendations made among 3,943,084 distinct users from June 5 2001 to May 16 2003. 99% of all 548,523 products can be 
separated to four main groups: Books, DVDs, Music and Videos.

Experiments
First, the authors finish the aggregate statistics of the recommendation network and run the recommendation propagation 
model. Next, they analyze the probability of purchasing as one gets more and more recommendations. After that, they 
measure recommendation effectiveness as two people exchange more and more recommendations, and they observe the 
recommendation network from the perspective of the sender of the recommendation. Then, they focus on timing of recommend
ations and purchases, recommendation effectiveness by book category. Lastly, they run the recommendation success model.

Results
·The probability of infection decreases with repeated interaction.
·The probability of purchasing a product increases with the number of recommendations received, but quickly saturates to 
a constant and relatively low probability.
·There are limits to how influential high degree nodes, as they send more recommendation past a certain number for a 
product, the success per recommendation declines.
·The characteristics of product reviews and effectiveness of recommendations vary by category and price, with more 
successful recommendations being made on technical or religious books.
·Smaller and more tightly knit groups tend to be more conducive to viral marketing.

Assumptions
·They assume that every recipient will read the recommendation email.
·They assume that after reading the recommendation, the one who decide to purchase will buy the product by the online 
retailer of the recommendation program.

Synthesis
I think there are still some perspectives for us to do further research. First, we could consider that after the 
recipient reads the recommendation information by email, however, he check the products of the online retailer and 
decide to buy the similar product which is not in the recommendation for him. Such behavior will be a member of buy 
edges in proportion or cause a number of recommendations of other products. Maybe we can set a relative investigation on 
the purchase websites. And then, we can have a price research for other online retailers, check whether there are 
products’ prices lower than the price from the recommendation program even if you have the discount. It might make 
people who want to purchase the same product finally choose another retailer.

Related Papers
1. Chen, W., Wang, C., & Wang, Y. (2010, July). Scalable influence maximization for prevalent viral marketing in large
-scale social networks. In Proceedings of the 16th ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining (pp. 1029-1038). ACM.
Their results from extensive simulations on several real-world and synthetic networks demonstrate that their algorithm 
is currently the best scalable solution to the influence maximization problem: (a) their algorithm scales beyond million
-sized graphs where the greedy algorithm becomes infeasible, and (b) in all size ranges, their algorithm performs 
consistently well in influence spread --- it is always among the best algorithms, and in most cases it significantly 
outperforms all other scalable heuristics to as much as 100%--260% increase in influence spread.

2. Ho, J. Y., & Dempsey, M. (2010). Viral marketing: Motivations to forward online content. Journal of Business Research
, 63(9), 1000-1006.
They investigate if high trait curiosity can indirectly lead to more forwarding by increasing the amount of online 
content consumed. Results show that Internet users, who are more individualistic and/or more altruistic, tend to forward 
more online content than others.
