Overview
This article presents an analysis of a person-to-person recommendation network. Also, the authors observe the propagation of recommendations and the cascade sizes, which they explain by a simple stochastic model. The paper then establishes how the recommendation network grows over time and how effective it is from the viewpoint of the sender and receiver of the recommendations. While on average recommendations are not very effective at inducing purchases and do not spread very far, this paper presents a model that successfully identifies product and pricing categories for which viral marketing seems to be very effective.

Algorithm
This paper presents a simple stochastic model that allows for the presence of relatively large cascades for a few products, but reflects well the general tendency of recommendation chains to terminate after just a short number of steps.

Hypothesis
1. A person is more likely to buy a product if she gets more recommendations. On the other hand, if a person hasn’t bought a product after a number of recommendations, they are not likely to change their minds after receiving even more of them.
2. A person who recommends only a few products will have her friends’ attention, but one who floods her friends with all sorts of recommendations will start to loose her influence.
3. One would expect that recommendations would be the most effective when recommended to the right subset of friends. If one is very selective and recommends to too few friends, then the chances of success are slim. One the other hand, recommending to everyone and spamming them with recommendations may have limited returns as well.

Data
The recommendation dataset consists of 15,646,121 recommendations made among 3,943,084 distinct users. The data was collected from June 5 2001 to May 16 2003. In total, 548,523 products were recommended, 99% of them belonging to 4 main product groups: Books, DVDs, Music and Videos. In addition to recommendation data, we also crawled the retailer’s website to obtain product categories, reviews and ratings for all products. Of the products in our data set, 5813 (1%) were discontinued (the retailer no longer provided any information about them).

Experiments
First, the paper examines how the probability of purchasing changes as one gets more and more recommendations. Next, this paper analyzes how the effectiveness of recommendations changes as two persons exchange more and more recommendations. And then the authors look from the viewpoint of the sender. They also study the time lag between the recommendation and the purchase of different product groups, effectively how long it takes a person to both receive a recommendation, consider it, and act on it.

Results
1. The probability of infection decreases with repeated interaction. Marketers should take heed that providing excessive incentives for customers to recommend products could backfire by weakening the credibility of the very same links they are trying to take advantage of.
2. The probability of purchasing a product increases with the number of recommendations received, but quickly saturates to a constant and relatively low probability.
3. In network-based epidemic models, extremely highly connected individuals play a very important role. In other words, individuals have greater influence over one another in an organized context, for example through a professional contact or a religious one.
4. The possibility of purchasing a product is related to the time.
5. The characteristics of product reviews and effectiveness of recommendations vary by category and price, with more successful recommendations being made on technical or religious books, which presumably are placed in the social context of a school, workplace or place of worship.
6. The smaller and more tightly knit groups tend to be more conducive to viral marketing.

Assumptions
1. This paper assumes a person who receives the recommendation will purchase the product through the same vendor, other than elsewhere to obtain the product.
2. The model assumes that each recipient of a recommendation will forward it to others if its value exceeds an arbitrary threshold that the individual sets for herself.

Synthesis
This paper is comprehensive about the shopping behavior online and how to advertise efficiently. Thus we should consider how to advance the e-commerce business in future. Few days ago, I heard a news that China will surpass U.S. in e-commerce to be the largest e-commerce market this year. Although behind China’s huge e-commerce expansion is demographics, which is massive population, Chinese e-commerce companies do have some unique experience worth studying. For instance, Taobao and Tmall, which is respectively C2C and B2C shopping website, owned by the same corporation, Alibaba, developed an instant message tool for the better communication among sellers and customers. In fact, customers are more inclined to know the sellers before they decide whether to buy commodities. A built-in instant message tool is convenient for the purpose of knowing each other. Service attitude of sellers plays an important role in the same goods condition. Also, customers can bargain with sellers online for the free shipping fee. The shopping experience is more like you shopping in the real shop other than on online website. For my own experience of online shopping in the U.S., the shipping time is too long for someone coming from China. Unfortunately, I was robbed of my cellphone. So I have to get a new phone. I ordered a cellphone on google play store. It took five days to deliver the new cellphone to me, which means I have to undergo five days without cellphone. For someone who is desperately expecting something, this shipping time is unbearable. Back way to China, Jingdong, a B2C website, can guarantee you get your goods in one day if you are in the big city, which means if you order your goods in the morning, you can get your goods in the afternoon. Even if you are in a small remote village, you can get the goods you ordered in the second day. How do they achieve this speed? Data mining contribute a lot to this achievement. Firstly, they build a lot of warehouses in different regions, which ensures the goods can be delivered to the customers less than 2 days. Then data mining kicks in. They analyze the page view of every goods in different region, then concluding which goods have the potential to be the best seller in this region and which goods will not be that popular. Then they increase the stock of goods that might be the best seller and decrease the stock of goods that might not sell well in this region's warehouse in advance. Thus, they can guarantee the goods are always in stock in this region and the customers can get their goods less than 2 days. Also, they provide some interesting service, such as you can track your goods in the digital map in real time. Thus, you can know where the goods locate now and how many minutes, litrally, remains before the good is delivered to you. This service is very helpful for a customer who desperately wants to know how long it will take before he or she can use the goods, which I believe it can help alleviate the anxiety of customers uncertain about the shipping. There are still a lot of details about ecommerce companies in China, which is worth to be compared with the counterparts in the U.S.. These comparisons might shed some light on the future development of ecommerce.

Related Papers
1. Shawndra, Hill., Foster, Provost., Chris, Volinsky. (2006). Network-Based Marketing: Identifying Likely Adopters via Consumer Networks. Statistical Science, Vol. 21, No. 2, A Special Issue on Statistical Challenges and Opportunities in Electronic Commerce Research pp. 256-276
This paper presents an idea of “Network-based marketing" referring to a collection of marketing techniques that take advantage of links between consumers to increase sales. This paper concentrate on the consumer networks formed using direct interactions (e.g., communications) between consumers.


2. Blanco-Fernandez, Yolanda. (2008). A flexible semantic inference methodology to reason about user preferences in knowledge-based recommender systems.  Knowledge-Based Systems May, 2008 Vol 21(4) Pages:-320
This paper proposes a personalization strategy that overcomes the drawback that a lot of useful knowledge is missing during the recommendation process, by applying inference techniques borrowed from the Semantic Web. This paper’s approach reasons about the semantics of items and user preferences to discover complex associations between them. These semantic associations provide additional knowledge about the user preferences, and permit the recommender system to compare them with the available items in a more effective way.

