
Overview: 
The paper tries to analyze large cluster of singular inputs and form a sentiment analysis over the general population
They try to identify trends in consumer opinion and political opinions.

Algorithm:
To start with Text analysis and Opinion Aggregation.
Since the data is huge and real time and the signal to noise is quite high a set of words are chosen to retrieve the messages that are to be considered for the experiment purposes.
a.consumer confidence -> economy, job, and jobs.
b.presidential job satisfaction -> obama.
c.elections sentiments -> obama and mccain.

For Opinion aggregation they attach a sentiment score to every chosen tweet and try to find an aggregate for required frequencies.
They use the help of Wilson, Wiebe, and Hoff- mann 2005 for the list of words ~3000 words to use in the calculation of the sentiment analysis.

Once the frequency of day to day behavior is set, they smoothen the curve to not reflect sudden change by using a moving average for k number of days.

For Correlation analysis they set parameters L and k to control the data. They try to match the day to data reports and monthly reports with their k values and try to see if the analysis is able to precede the event of disturbance.
k is the frequency parameter and L being the lag parameter. 

For forecasting, they train the same set of with only previous data. L is the future that they try to predict and the algorithm learns only from data till t-1 days at the most.

Hypothesis:
Understand and analyze public sentiments using real time clustered twitter data.
Like the paper shows, they expect it to be a low cost alternate to the general pre poll analysis and other public opinions.

Data:
Real time twitter data over the monitoring period. About a billion tweets in total.
The time period is between 2008 and 2009.
All non - English speaking tweets are not considered.
Geography, even if available in the API, is not considered.

For the data to be matched along side, they use third part data, retrieved from trusted and mentioned sources.
To measure the sentiments around consumer satisfaction etc. they use
1.Index of Consumer Sentiment by Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers.
2.Gallup Organization’s “Eco- nomic Confidence” index.

For the political affairs tracking, the paper uses two sources as benchmark indexes. 
1.Gallup’s daily tracking poll for the presidential job approval.
2.A compilation provided by Pollster.com

Experiments: 
Once the data is collected, various possible analysis is done as described in the algorithms.
The paper briefly describes the choices made while describing the algorithm.
as many matches to the standard reports are being mentioned as the paper progresses. 

Results:
They did match most of their analysis to the hypothesis. 
There are quite a few charts they draw up by altering the data. 
For the most part they are fine while trying to match text analysis to the sentiments.
They show this by matching it to the standard outputs they already have and trying to forecast a possible trend for the next short period of time.

Assumptions:
a. Geography of user. and relevance of user. All twitter users, thought are from america, cannot be a good assumption to start with.
b. an extension of the first assumption, also noted by the authors, twitter user base increased over the specified time. It could have been a more accurate research if the sample size from who tweets were collected was fixed.
 
Synthesis: Are there claims you disagree with? What would you do differently? What would you do next?
Yes. Given the ideas, I would want to see if i could plant a specific event/sentiment and see if i can  predict the growth of the the story.
