Overview: Write a short paragraph summarizing the content of the paper.
The intent of the paper seems to use combine human relations on a social network to a spread of a disease. 
In this case, they take the example of a network on twitter formed based on geo tagged tweets in Ney York City area. 
It tries to find how mentions of feeling sick spread and to model a to represent the spread of the sick / flu affected victims. 

Algorithm: Describe in more detail the primary algorithm proposed or applied in the paper.
They first get a detailed network with geo tagged details.This is a very large set of data(~16 million tweets)
They pick a small sample set that would represent about 1:3000 people in NYC area.This is about 5000 tweets. 
Then they run a semi supervised training model to fit into a Support Vector Machine. 
This is done twice. Once when the false positives are penalized. The other when false negatives are penalized. 
Both models just mark the tweets as either sick or other. 
They combine both of these, identify a strict model to apply on the remaining data using only the features that appeared at least thrice in the sample set on both models.


Hypothesis: List the hypotheses the authors test in the paper (note that these are not always explicitly stated).
Marking and manning the flow of the data that comes through a social network along with location data, could be used to track and manage epidemic diseases. 
They try to get closer to answer, who is the first patient who brought a disease to a community.

Data: Describe the data used in the experiments
Data that is used for this is based on geo tagged twitter data from NYC area.
The data was collected for a  month long period. 
It ended up with a total set of about 16 million tweets.Of which only 5 million were geo tagged.
The users with geo tagged location are about 6000. and geo tagged users with signs of sickness were about 2000. 

They try to track ~60,000 locations and try to track movement of users over time.

Experiments: Briefly describe how are the experiments are organized.
One of the experiments is to track the location of a user and identify the neighboring sick people. 
Then, they try to predict the sickness in that person after a day(or a set time period).

Results: Describe the results and their significance.
They seem to propose that they got a efficient model working.
There seems to be a relationship between the sick neighbors and you falling sick.
The show that the more sick friends you have around you, the more you are probably going to fall sick. 

Assumptions: List some of the important assumptions the authors make in their work.
Friends on twitter are geographically closer.
It is possible to track the movement of people accurately.

Synthesis: Are there claims you disagree with? What would you do differently? What would you do next?
The paper goes on the assumption that tracking is as easy as identifying geo tagged twitter data.
Although, it is possible to track people and their whereabouts , the data required to work on is quite large. Twitter itself, could possibly do it in-house.
(or may be the NSA could.)
With a rate limit. Limiting to geotagged tweets, make it a very small sample set geo tagged people to general public.

This being said, this is definitely not a bad thing to do. It can be used in a group to track movement in behavior.

In one of the related works, they mention the ability to identify mental disorders and track sentiments.
This is a very good area to take this forward. 
finding dpi centers of specific ideas makes it very useful in tracking movement as such.
