Overview
This paper focuses on fine-grained modeling of the spread of infectious diseases throughout a real-world population. They focuses on self-symptoms that appear in people’s Twitter status updates, and show they can identify the messages with high precision as well as high recall.

Algorithm
·Formulated semi-supervised cascade-based approach to learning a robust support vector machine classifier with a large 
area under the ROC curve.
·Support vector machine(SVM)

Hypothesis
·Digital media is successfully used in public health monitoring.
·Twitter friendships have a substantial overlap with offline friendships.
·Health-related tweets are relatively scarce as compared to other types of messages 

Data
Nearly 16 million tweets in NYC metropolitan area during one month authored by more than 630 thousand unique users, 
collected from the Twitter Search API by a number of machine with different IP addresses. The researchers concentrated 
on the 6,237 geo-active users who posted more than 100 GPS-tagged tweets.

Experiments
They used two different binary SVM classifiers to distinguish sick tweets and all the other, then analyzed the impact of 
co-location and friendship.

Results
The previous section on a held-out test set of 700,000 tweets shows 0.98 precision and 0.97 recall. This evaluation run 
also allows us to choose an optimal threshold on the classification score that separates the normal tweets from the sick 
tweets. The correlation between the prevalence of infectious diseases predicted by this model and the predictions made 
by Google Flu Trends specifically for New York City is 0.73.

Assumptions
·Two individuals co-locate if they visit the same 100 by 100 meter cell within a time window of length T.
·The tweets information is accurate and unbiased.

Synthesis
I wonder what we can learn from the model in the future. Known they collect the information from the users who have 
symptoms, therefore I guess that maybe it can tell us about the people and area we should keep away from. And though the 
correlation between this model and Google Flu Trends is strong, we have no idea whether the Google Flu Trends is 
accurate.

Related Papers
1. Funk, S., & Jansen, V. A. (2013). The Talk of the Town: Modelling the Spread of Information and Changes in Behaviour. 
In Modeling the Interplay Between Human Behavior and the Spread of Infectious Diseases (pp. 93-102). Springer New York.
They describe a model in which awareness of the presence of a disease can spread in a population and influence the 
spread of the disease itself through protective measures that people can take. We describe the dynamics of disease 
spread, focusing, in particular, on the relation between awareness and proximity of disease in the network.

2. Hill, A. L., Rand, D. G., Nowak, M. A., & Christakis, N. A. (2010). Emotions as infectious diseases in a large social 
network: the SISa model. Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences, 277(1701), 3827-3835.
They provides a theoretical framework for studying the interpersonal spread of any state that may also arise spontaneous
ly, such as emotions, behaviors, health states, ideas or diseases with reservoirs. 

3. Mathieu, J., Pfaff, M., Klein, G. L., Drury, J. L., Goedecke, M., James, J. H., ... & Bobashev, G. (2010, May). 
Tactical Robust decision-making methodology: effect of disease spread model fidelity on option awareness. In 7th 
International Conference on Information Systems for Crisis Response and Management.

They show how simpler low fidelity, low precision models can be proved to be sufficient to support the decision maker. 
This is a pioneering application of exploratory modeling to address the human-computer integration requirements of 
tactical robust decision making.
