Overview
Instead of being concentrated on coarse-grained statistical analysis of populations, this paper focuses on fine-grained modeling of the spread of infectious diseases throughout a large real-world social network, by means of data mining of Tweeter data related to health condition. Moreover, this paper provides some quantifiable estimates of the characteristics of disease transmission on a large scale without active user participation.


Algorithm
1. Support Vector Machine (SVM) for detecting illness message on Tweeter
2. quantify the effect of social ties on disease transmission by leveraging users’ Twitter friendships.

Hypothesis
1.Social ties to infected, symptomatic people, as well as the intensity of recent co-location, sharply increase one’s likelihood of contracting the illness in the near future.
2.Algorithm SVM can efficiently extract information related to health condition from Tweeter data.
3.Furthermore, activities on social media is sufficient for identifying friendship between two users, also recognizing the likelihood of the two hanging out recently.


Data
This paper concentrates on 6,237 accounts that posted more than 100 GPS-tagged tweets during the one-month data collection period starting from May 18, 2010, which are selected from a sample of public tweets within 100 kilometers of the NYC city center.

Experiments
The authors begin by training two different binary SVM classifier Cs, which is highly penalized for inducing false positives, and classifier Co, which is heavily penalized for creating false negatives. After applying threshold on the classification score to reduce the noise in the cascade, they get the final SVM classifier Cf. Furthermore, To overcome the class imbalance problem, where the number of tweets about an illness is much smaller than the number of other messages, the authors apply the ROCArea SVM learning method that directly optimizes the area under the ROC curve. Finally, The authors are capable of quantifying the effect of social ties on disease transmission, by leveraging users’ Twitter friendships.

Results
Evaluation of the final SVM Cf on a held-out test set of 700,000 tweets shows 0.98 precision and 0.97 recall. The correlation between the prevalence of infectious diseases predicted by the paper’s model and the predictions made by Google Flu Trends specifically for New York City is 0.73. The authors establish a definite exponential relationship between probable physical encounters and ensuing sickness by analyzing co-location effect.


Assumptions
1.Folks tweet about their health condition on tweeter.
2.Geographic information of tweeter user is credible.
3.The data bias is very small if the authors strictly focus on the geo-active individuals.
4.Friendship in real life between tweeter users is recognizable.

Synthesis
Actually, I am convinced that the geographic proximity plays a much more important role than the friendship presumed by the paper via analyzing Tweeter data when it comes to predicting the trend of flu.
Admittedly, there is a good chance that two friends meet in the real life, resulting in raising the possibility of one friend getting flu from the infected friend. However, the geographic factor still plays a role in this case. If the two presumable friends are even not in the same city, it is not very possible that they infect each other. Not to mention, the presumable friendship might be just a noise, which means it does not even exist. Thus, I argue it’s more useful to predict the trend of flu by only concentrating on the geographic information other than friendship, which distracts our focus.


Related Papers

1. Jalalpour, Mehdi.; Gel, Yulia.; Levin, Scott. ; Torcaso, Fred. ; Igusa, Takeru.; Rothman, Richard E. 2013 Influenza Forecasting with Google Flu Trends. In PLoS ONE Feb2013, Vol. 8 Issue 2, p1-7

This paper introduced a practical influenza forecast model based on real-time, geographically focused, and easy to access data, designed to provide individual medical centers with advanced warning of the expected number of influenza cases, thus allowing for sufficient time to implement interventions.

2. Pervaiz, Fahad. 2012 Early epidemic detection from Google flu trends. In Journal of Medical Internet Research Sep-Oct, 2012 Vol 14(5) Pages:-358

This paper presents the detailed algorithmic analysis of how Google Flu Trends can be used as a basis for building a fully automated system for early warning of epidemics in advance of methods used by the CDC. Based on their work, the authors present a novel early epidemic detection system, called FluBreaks (dritte.org/flubreaks), based on Google Flu Trends data.


