Overview:
This paper proposed a scalable, content-based approach to estimate the location of tweets using a novel yet simple 
variant of gaussian mixture models. They also gave novel metrics of accuracy, precision and calibration and they 
evaluated their approach accordingly. 

Algorithm:
1.	For each n-gram that appears more than a threshold number of times in the training data, fit a GMM to the true 
origin points of the tweets in the training set that contain that n-gram. 
2.	To locate a test tweet, collect the GMMs from the location model which corresponds to n-grams in the test tweet.
3.	Three methods to set GMM weights: quality properties, error and optimization. 
4.	Consider GMM-ALL-Tweets and GMM-One as the baseline.
 
Hypothesis:
People can estimate the location of tweets by using a Gaussian mixture model. 
Consistent with other methods, toponyms provide the most important signals. 

Data:
1.	An approximately continuous 1% sample of all global tweets from January 25, 2012 to January 23, 2013 via Twitter 
Streaming API. Approximately 13 million geotagged tweets. 
2.	They tokenized the message text, user description, and user location fields, which are free-text, into bigrams by
splitting on Unicode character category and script boundaries and then further subdividing bigrams which appear to be 
Japanese using the TinySegmenter algorithm.
3.	For the language and time zone fields, they form n-grams by simply removing whitespace and punctuation and 
converting to lowercase.

Experiment:
1.	Generated a test schedule.
2.	For each n-gram that appears more than a threshold number of times in the training data, fit a GMM to the true 
origin points of the tweets in the training set that contain that n-gram.
3.	To locate a test tweet, collect the GMMs from the location model which corresponded to n-grams in the test tweet. 
The weighted sum of these GMMs — itself a GMM — was the geographic density function which forms the estimate of the 
test tweet’s location.
4.	Used 3 methods to set the GMM weights.
5.	Consider GMM-All-Tweets, which fitted a single GMM to all tweets in the training set and returned that GMM for all 
locate operations, and GMM-One, which weighted all n-gram mixtures equally, as two baseline.

Result:
1.	Their novel, simple, and scalable GMM-based approach produced well-calibrated estimates with a global mean accuracy
error of roughly 1,800 km and precision of 900,000 square kilometers (or better), which is competitive with more complex approaches on the dimensions available in prior work.
2.	Approximately 30000 tweets are sufficient for high-quality models. 
3.	Their model was nearly independent of time, performing just 6% worse with a gap of 4 month. 
4.	The user location string and time zone fields provided the strongest signals, tweet text and user language were 
weaker but important to offer an estimate for all test tweets, and user description had essentially no location value.
Mentioning toponyms, especially at the city scale, provided a strong signal, as did using languages with a small
geographic footprint.

Synthesis:
In this experiment the author concluded that their method is nearly time independent and had only 6% worse in a gap of 
6 month. I think more experiment should be done to show how often we should retrain the data to get the highest 
prediction so that when we get a tweet, we could use the different model to determine the location due to its 
generating time. 

Related paper:
O’Hare N, Murdock V. Modeling locations with social media[J]. Information Retrieval, 2013, 16(1): 30-62.
This paper proposed a statistical language modeling approach to identifying location in arbitrary text, and investigated
several ways to estimate the models, based on the term frequency and user frequency. 
Chandra S, Khan L, Muhaya F B. Estimating twitter user location using social interactions--a content based approach[C]//Privacy, security, risk and trust (passat), 2011 ieee third international conference on and 2011 ieee third international conference on social computing (socialcom). IEEE, 2011: 838-843.
This paper employed a probabilistic framework to estimate the city-level location of a Twitter user, based on the 
content of the tweets in their dialogues, using reply-tweet messages. As a result, their baseline estimation yields 
an accuracy higher that the 10% accuracy of the current state of the art estimation

