Overview:
The authors propose a scalable, content-based approach to estimate the location of tweets using a novel yet simple variant of gaussian mixture models. Further, because real-world applications depend on quantified uncertainty of such estimates, this paper propose novel metrics of accuracy, precision, and calibration, and authors evaluate our approach accordingly.

Algorithm:
The authors introduce a family of algorithms, which includes GMM-Err-SAE10, optimization-based algorithm (GMM-Opt-ID) ,property-based algorithm(GMM-Qpr-Covar-Sum-Prod), and  baseline weighting algorithms the (GMM-One and GMM-All-Tweets).

Hypothesis:
Examining the geographic distribution of n-grams can suggest
appropriate inference models. The two clusters, along with scattered locations elsewhere, suggest that a multi-modal distribution consisting oftwo-dimensional gaussians may be a reasonable fit.

Data:
We used the Twitter Streaming API to collect an approximately continuous 1% sample of all global tweets from January 25, 2012 to January 23, 2013. Between 0.8% and 1.6% of these, depending on timeframe, contained a geotag (i.e., specific geographic coordinates marking the true origin of the tweet, derived from GPS or other automated means), yielding a total of approximately 13 million geotagged tweets.

Experiments:
1. For each n-gram that appears more than a threshold number of times in the training data, fit a GMM to the true origin points of the tweets in the training set that contain that n-gram. This n-gram/GMM mapping forms the trained location model. To locate a test tweet, collect the GMMs from the location model which correspond to n-grams in the test tweet. The weighted sum of these GMMs — itself a GMM — is the geographic density function which forms the estimate of the test tweet’s location.
2. Weighting by quality properties
3. Weighting by error
4. Weighting by optimization
5. Baseline weighting algorithms

Results:
Toponyms offer the strongest signal; fully 83% of the n-gram weight in well-located tweets is due to toponyms, including 49% on city names. In contrast, n-grams used for poorly-located tweets tended to be non-toponyms (57%). Notably, languages with geographically compact user bases, such as Dutch, also provided strong signals even for non-toponyms

Assumptions:

Synthesis:
Maybe we can try more language to compare the accurracy of different language in the same algorithm. I think it is very interesting.

Related Papers:
Davis., Clodoveu A..(2011). Inferring the Location of Twitter Messages Based on User Relationships. Transactions in GIS Dec2011, Vol. 15 Issue 6, p735-751 
User interaction in social networks, such as Twitter and Facebook, is increasingly becoming a source of useful information on daily events. The online monitoring of short messages posted in such networks often provides insight on the repercussions of events of several different natures, such as (in the recent past) the earthquake and tsunami in Japan, the royal wedding in Britain and the death of Osama bin Laden. Studying the origins and the propagation of messages regarding such topics helps social scientists in their quest for improving the current understanding of human relationships and interactions. However, the actual location associated to a tweet or to a Facebook message can be rather uncertain. Some tweets are posted with an automatically determined location (from an IP address), or with a user-informed location, both in text form, usually the name of a city. We observe that most Twitter users opt not to publish their location, and many do so in a cryptic way, mentioning no n-existing places or providing less specific place names (such as 'Brazil'). In this article, we focus on the problem of enriching the location of tweets using alternative data, particularly the social relationships between Twitter users. Our strategy involves recursively expanding the network of locatable users using following-follower relationships. Verification is achieved using cross-validation techniques, in which the location of a fraction of the users with known locations is used to determine the location of the others, thus allowing us to compare the actual location to the inferred one and verify the quality of the estimation. With an estimate of the precision of the method, it can then be applied to locationless tweets. Our intention is to infer the location of as many users as possible, in order to increase the number of tweets that can be used in spatial analyses of social phenomena. The article demonstrates the feasibility of our approach using a dataset comprising tweets that mention keywords related to dengue fever, increasing by 45% the number of locatable tweets.

Sakaki, Takeshi. (2013). Tweet Analysis for Real-Time Event Detection and Earthquake Reporting System Development. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge & Data Engineering Apr2013, Vol. 25 Issue 4, p919-931 


