Overview:
This paper focuses on determining personality type of the author from casual written text. They developed a method for 
classifying texts by personality type of the author, using functional lexical features and machine learning. 

Algorithm
Four different sets of lexical features. 
Using Weka’s SMO learning algorithm with a linear kernel for classification. 
10-fold cross-validation.
 
Hypothesis
Four different sets of lexical features would help classify people’s personality. 

Data:
Essays written by students at the University of Texas at Austin between 1997 and 2003.
Each undergraduate students wrote a stream-of-consciousness essay and an essay of deep self-analysis and in total it 
consists 1157 and 1106 documents.
Students were given the NEO-FFI Five-Factor Personality Inventory. Scores from the Neuroticism and Extraversion factors
were used to define two binary classification tasks.

Experiments:
All documents in each corpus were processed into numeric feature vectors using various combinations of Function Word, 
Conjunction, Modality and Appraisal. 
They used WEKA’s implementation of SMO learning algorithm with a linear kernel for learning classification models. 
They used 10-fold cross-validation accuracy for discriminating High from Low neurotics in
the stream-of-consciousness (SoC) and deep self-analysis (DSA) writing tasks. 

Results:
Functional lexical features would help the psychological profiling for Neuroticism. 
The Appraisal lexical taxonomy is especially useful for Neuroticism. 
The result is not clear in the case of Extraversion. 

Assumptions:
The words people use reflect who they are. 

Synthesis
The author only use 2 factors of big five personality traits and he did mention the other 3 in the experiment. To get
the better identification of people’s different personality, future work could be doing the experiment under the 
Agreeableness, Conscientiousness and Openness to experience. 

Related papers
1.	Mairesse, F., Walker, M. A., Mehl, M. R., & Moore, R. K. (2007). Using Linguistic Cues for the Automatic Recognition of Personality in Conversation and Text. J. Artif. Intell. Res.(JAIR), 30, 457-500.
This article reports experimental results for recognition of all Big Five personality traits, in both conversation 
and text, utilizing both self and observer ratings of personality. And the results show that for some traits, any type 
of statistical model performs significantly better than the baseline, but ranking models perform best overall.

2.	Wiebe, J., & Riloff, E. (2005). Creating subjective and objective sentence classifiers from unannotated texts. In Computational Linguistics and Intelligent Text Processing (pp. 486-497). Springer Berlin Heidelberg.
In this paper the author tried to develop subjectivity classifiers using only unannotated texts for training.

