Overview:
In this paper the author suggested a list of high-level features including sentiment and emotion based ones that could
help detecting online sexual predation. 

Algorithm:
Naïve Bayes Classifier to distinguish between predators and not predators. 
By using sentiWordNet to extract positive and negative words.
Baseline system was using low-level features.

Hypothesis:
Emotion-based features could help the detection of sexual predation. 
They could obtain higher accuracy for the NPS chat by using all but character bi-grams. 

Data:
Chat logs from the perverted-justice website.
Cybersex chat logs and the NPS chat corpus as the negative dataset. 
The dataset consisted of 65 authors finally. 

Experiments:
They used Naïve Bayes classifier to distinguish between predators and not predators.
They used SentiWordNet to extract positive and negative words. 
To make the data balance, they created 5 subsets of PJ corpus and each contained chat lines from 60 randomly selected 
predators.  
They used only one author for training because his chatting line contain almost half of the chat sessions in cybersex 
logs. 
They used low-level features as the baseline and tested the high-level features. 

Results:
High-level features achieve much higher accuracy than low-level features in different dataset. 
All low-level features considered work worse in case of cybersex logs except for character bigrams.
Low-level features do not work as well as we expected in case of the NPS chat dataset.
The high-level features have a better performance in the PJ-cybersex logs than PJ-NPS dataset. 

Synthesis:
I think this is a very useful research. From detecting pedophile’s chat, we could prevent the potential criminal. But 
I think one of the biggest problem is are those chat logs always available? Is it legal to monitor people’s chatting 
without notify him? People would never say something illegal when they are told that they are current monitored. 
However, it’s still very useful in detecting the children porn or website. 

Related papers:
1.	Peersman C, Vaassen F, Van Asch V, et al. Conversation Level Constraints on Pedophile Detection in Chat Rooms[C]//CLEF (Online Working Notes/Labs/Workshop). 2012.
They combined the results of predictions on the level of the individual post, the level of the user and the level of 
the entire conversation, and describe the results of his three-stage system in the PAN 2012 competition as a new 
approach for detecting online pedophiles in chat rooms. 
2.	Panchenko A, Beaufort R, Naets H, et al. Towards detection of child sexual abuse media: categorization of the associated filenames[M]//Advances in Information Retrieval. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2013: 776-779.
In this paper they worked on automatic pedophile content identification. They categorized pornographic media by 
filename and reached accuracy by 91%-97%.  
