Overview：
After reading many papers claiming positive results in electoral prediction, the author decides to write this paper to 
refute them. In this paper, every study relevant to the matter of electoral prediction using social media is commented. 
By such a survey, the author draws the conclusion that the predictive power of Twitter regarding elections has been 
greatly exaggerated, and he provides some recommendations about the research problems ahead.

Algorithm：
No

Hypothesis：
No

Data：
Papers related to electoral prediction using Twitter data

Experiments：
No

Results:
The author mentions some flaws in current research regarding electoral predictions using Twitter data, then provides 
core lines of future research and an annotated bibliography in a chronological order.
From the previous literature review it can be concluded:
1. Not everyone is using Twitter.
2. Not every twitterer is tweeting about politics.
3. Just because it is on Twitter does not mean it is true.
4. Naivete is not bliss.
Therefore, if someone who want to do serious research in this area should take into account all of that, follow the 
research lines the author has outlined, and remember that Twitter cannot consistently predict elections.

Assumptions:
No

Synthesis:
I will focus on the twitters who are interested in politics (we need to set a standard about them). I will have a study 
on their attitudes during the election, whether they insist on supporting one candidate and the proportion of them. 
Maybe there will be correlation between the proportion and the electoral prediction.

Related Papers: 
1. Gayo-Avello, D. (2012). A meta-analysis of state-of-the-art electoral prediction from Twitter data. arXiv preprint 
arXiv:1206.5851.
This is the first meta-analysis of the whole body of research regarding electoral prediction from Twitter data. It 
reveals that its presumed predictive power regarding electoral prediction has been rather exaggerated: although social 
media may provide a glimpse on electoral outcomes current research does not provide strong evidence to support it can 
replace traditional polls. This paper aims to (1) provide a balanced and critical review of the state of the art; (2) 
cast light on the presume predictive power of Twitter data; and (3) depict a roadmap to push forward the field.

2. Franch, F. (2013). (Wisdom of the Crowds) 2: 2010 UK election prediction with social media. Journal of Information 
Technology & Politics, 10(1), 57-71.
The auto regressive integrated moving average (ARIMA) model performs predictions for the Labour Party, Liberal-Democrats
, and Conservatives that are respectively only 0.48, 0.83, and 0.19 percentage points off the real vote share, thus well 
exceeding the predictive power of more traditional and expensive polls.

3. Schoen, H., Gayo-Avello, D., Metaxas, P. T., Mustafaraj, E., Strohmaier, M., & Gloor, P. (2013). The power of 
prediction with social media. Internet Research, 23(5), 1-1.
A taxonomy of prediction models is introduced, along with their relative advantages and the particular scenarios where 
they have been applied to. The main areas of prediction that have attracted research so far are described, and the main 
contributions made by the papers in this special issue are summarized. Finally, it is argued that statistical models 
seem to be the most fruitful approach to apply to make predictions from social media data.
