Overview
Recent years, lots of researchers are into predicting elections within data from Twitter. But there are plenty of flaws and potential mistakes neglected in papers. This paper comment every paper relevant to this matter and give a general summary and some recommendations on the problems.

Algorithms
No algorithms.

Hypothesis
No hypothesis.

Data
No data.

Experiments
No experiment.

Results
No result.

Assumptions
No assumption.

Comments
The author did not agree with most of the papers related to prediction for elections via using Twitter data. He came up with eight common flaws:
1. No predictive evidence in any paper at all.
2. Most paper didn't take the advantage of imcumbency into consideration while setting up the baseline.
3. No standard for how to "count" votes, or saying calculating scores from data.
4. No commonly accepted way to intepret so-called "reality", which implies the true figure in the real world.
5. We want the white-box classifiers instead of the black-box one. But the latter one is widely used.
6. The papers didn't rule out the untrusted tweets.
7. The demographic distribution is ignored, which may lead to a poor representative result.
8. All papers ignored that tweets on political topic are probably generated by those political active.

Recommendations
1. All the work claiming a predictive function should predict a future election in real world.
2. Take the degree of imcumbency into consideration and try to prove it better then the former baseline.
3. Clearly give a standard about what a "vote" is.
4. Clearly define a golden baseline of "truth".
5. We should use a reasonable sentiment analysis method instead of some simplistic assumptions.
6. Rule out all the disinformation and spammers.
7. The dataset should somehow represent the demographic.
8. Pay attention to the majority who are not talking.

Synthesis
I generally agree with the author. However, in some situations, it's really critical to consider the "silent majority" or the demographic representativeness. Because they may involve some other experiments with tons of other assumptions, mistakes and theories, which may contribute to a more complex and opaque model. So we want to simplify the problem in a specific situation and focus on the very variable we study on.

Related Papers
This paper almost mentioned every paper before related in this area. So I will focus on the later ones.

1. Political polarization and popularity in online participatory media: an integrated approach: they analyzed the collective emotions and "virality" of political videos. The results shed light on the different mechanisms of emotional interaction and political information diffusion in online communitie.

2. A new measure of party identification in Twitter. evidence from Spain: he tried to explore a way using a Bayesian Item-Response model to scale Twitter users on a common ideological dimension based on who they "follow" aiming to predict their political propensity.

3. Knowing the Tweeters: Deriving Sociologically Relevant Demographics from Twitter: they demonstrated a range of techniques for collecting or estimating demographics from Twitter data including analysing gender, language and location. They showed that rich demographics can be derived from Twitter user profiles and tweets that are not explicitly stated in either of these sources.
