Overview
Many researchers are keen to predicting elections with Twitter dataset. But most of the authors prefer to provide positive consequences than reproducible methods. And their researches always over exaggerate the power of Twitter prediction. So, this paper is going to comment those papers regarding electoral predictions using Twitter data and provide some recommendations for future research.

Algorithms
No algorithms.

Hypothesis
No hypothesis.

Data
No data.

Experiments
No experiment.

Results
“No, you cannot predict elections with Twitter”.

Assumptions
I think the assumption of this paper is that the rate of political active people on Twitter of all the people is as same as the rate of political active people on Twitter of voter. So, he thought political active people on Twitter only take a small part of all voters and they are over-represented. However, in my opinion, those people have higher possibility than others to vote.

Flaws in current research
1.	No paper predicting a future result.
2.	Incumbency is not considered as a baseline.
3.	They do not use clear method to count vote from tweets.
4.	No commonly accept way to compare the prediction with reality.
5.	Sentiment analysis is too naïve to improve the responsibility of the result.
6.	Sample of tweets do not be filtered, so lots of misleading information affect the result.
7.	Demographics are overlooked.
8.	The data of those researches only collect from politically active.

Recommendations
1.	Those who claim a prediction method should predict an election in the future.
2.	Baseline should be predicting the incumbent will win.
3.	Clearly explain the meaning of “vote”.
4.	Clearly define the golden truth of prediction methods.
5.	Authors should pay high attention to sentiment analysis.
6.	Credibility should be taken into consideration. It means that misleading information should be removed.
7.	You should try your best to collect demographic data.
8.	Never ignore the silent majority.
9.	Not everybody use Twitter, so demographic bias should prediction corrected on its basis.
10.	Tweets about politics are only taking a small part of all tweets.


Synthesis
I basically agree with the author. Moreover, I’d like to do some other experiments.
1.	Comparing approval rate in different time. Because the closer to election the more tweets about political would be produced. The sample is always changing. So, we should count the approval rates in different period of time and compare them in the same period of time.
2.	I would like to count the approval rate in different strata or age at the same time. People of diverse strata or age will change differently for same reason. For instance, if president announces that he would provide more vacation, workers may vote for this but the employers may be going to change their decision from support to against at the same time. According to this, we can figure out how different people change to predict future elections.
3.	Count the number either of firm supporter or infirm supporter. Firm supporters mean the people only support a certain candidate or party and hardly change. Infirm supporters refer to the people change their decision frequently. I think the firm supporters should take high weight in future electoral predictions.

Related Papers
1.	Daniel Gayo-Avello, Panagiotis T. Metaxas and Eni Mustafaraj. Limits of Electoral Predictions Using Twitter.

This paper claims that the authors’ work puts to test the purported predictive power of social media metrics against the 2010 US congressional elections. However, they ﬁnd no correlation between the analysis results and the electoral outcomes, contradicting precious reports.
2.	Johan Bollen, Huina Mao, Xiaojun Zeng.	Twitter mood predicts the stock market

This paper indicates that the accuracy of Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) predictions can be significantly improved by the inclusion of specific public mood dimensions but not others.
