Overview

The paper present the writer’s opinion about Twitter predicting election, he thinks that 

is impossible now and this hard research problem is not solved. Then he use various 

papers to proved it and  give his own opinion about this.

Algorithm

This section is better to say how the writer proved his opinion. He gathered several 

professors work together, then give his reasons, opinions and many annotated 

bibliography with his own analyze to proved his opinion. 

Data

The papers he references in the annotated bibliography.and additional bibliography.

Results

Twitter is not a social media that everyone use it. 

Though there are a lot of people use it, it is not everyone tweets are all something about political.

The information in Twitter is not authority, it might be wrong.

It is not wise to let users trapped in political discourse, it will let them feel harder to make a decision.

If people want to the research in this field, better to follow his rules.
 
Assumptions

The flaws of some research in this area

It is totally not a prediction, just post-hoc analysis.

Chance is not the only factor, incumbency is also important.

It is not a widely accept of “counting votes” in Twitter.

No need to use the reality to interpret another reality.

Sentiment analysis is simple and superficial.

The tweets might be wrong.

Demographic can not proved that twitter can predict election.

Self-selection bias must be considered.

The recommendations to future research in this area
 
If you want to prove you can prediction the result, you predict an election first.

Check what you want to predict and do not make it like the story of Rube Goldberg.

You must know what is a “vote” completely.

Check yourself and make sure you do it in right way.

Sentiment analysis is a good thing, try to make it better to use.

Credibility is the most important, you must careful about it.

Before election, get the political preference of your users in the dataset.

Maybe a lot of people do not care about it now.

Synthesis  

Simply to say, I do not know why the writer is so aggressive. I know when others said 

they can use Twitter data to predict the election result (it maybe the original 

sentence,but something like this), what he thinks that is impossible now, he denied 

others’ research and claimed if you want to do some research in this field, you may try 

to follow his recommendation. It seems like his recommendation are all correct, but I 

think everyone goes the same way as he said also is not a good thing, this field needs 

diversity.

I know he has many evidences to support his opinion, we can see those on the 

annotated bibliography.and additional bibliography. It is seems like all those papers he 

cited in his paper can not convince us totally, but the most important thing is the 

writer did not provide enough evidences to let us believe him. He just cited other’s 

papers against the papers which the writers claimed that twitter can predict the 

election. Even in some paper what he cited to support his opinion also confess the 

twitter has some ability to show the result of an election, he still claim the twitter 

cannot, in the beginning of his paper ”No, you cannot predict elections with Twitter”. 

In my opinion, consider about the large number of the Tweets and the great influence 

of the Twitter, it has the possibility to predict an election.


Related Papers

Predicting Elections with Twitter: What 140 Characters Reveal about
Political Sentiment Tumasjan, A., Sprenger, T.O., Sandner, P.G., andWelpe,
I.M. 2010. In Proceedings of the Fourth International AAAI Conference on Weblogs
and Social Media.

The writer cited this paper, and use it to be a Opposite side thesis, it claims that the 

twitter data really can predict the election. But I do not see powerful rufute from the 

writer.


Tweets and Votes: A Study of the 2011 Singapore General ElectionSkoric, M., Poor, N., Achananuparp, P., Lim, E-P., and Jiang, J. 2012. In Proceedings of the 45th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences.

The paper present that the twitter chatter and votes can provide some reasonable 

information about national election, but when it comes to local level, it failed. 
