Overview:
They present a method that based on large-scale in vivo randomized experimentation has the potential to identify 
influence and susceptibility in networks while avoiding the biases inherent in traditional estimates of social contagion.

Algorithm:
They used hazard modeling as statistical approach and extended existing techniques to distinguish spontaneous adoption 
and influence-driven adoption.

Hypothesis:
Influence, susceptibility to influence, or a combination of the two drives social contagion.

Data:
The experiment was conducted over 44 days during which 7730 product adopters sent 41,686 automated notifications to 
randomly chosen targets among their 1.3 million friends.

Experiments:
·They used a commercial Facebook application to deliver the information and got the peer’s treatment status by modeling 
time to peer adoption.
·They estimated the average treatment effects of notifications by aggregating many individual experiments in which 
messages were randomized within the local networks of the original adopting users.
·They specify the hazards model to estimate the moderating effects.

Results:
·On average, susceptibility decreases with age.
·Men are more influential than women.
·Women influence men more than they influence other women.
·Married individuals are the most influential.
·Influential individuals are less susceptible to influence than noninfluential individuals, and they cluster in the network while susceptible individuals do not.

Assumptions:
·Highly influential individuals tend not to be susceptible, highly susceptible individuals tend not to be influential, and almost no one is both highly influential and highly susceptible to influence.
·The “influentials” and “susceptibles” hypotheses are orthogonal claims.
·There are more people with high influence scores than high susceptibility scores.
·Influentials cluster in the network.

Synthesis:
The methods for influence identification are generalizable and can be used to measure influence and susceptibility in 
the diffusion of other products and behaviors in a variety of settings. However, the work has limitations, such as 
recipient selection and message content should be estimated in the future experiments. The unclear things can be 
examined in future research while we have seen the potential of the methods based on large-scale in vivo randomized 
experiments from their results.

Related papers: 
1.Aral, S. (2011). Commentary—Identifying Social Influence: A Comment on Opinion Leadership and Social Contagion in New 
Product Diffusion. Marketing Science, 30(2), 217-223.
They suggest five broad directions for future research on social influence and opinion leadership that could, if 
appropriately addressed, dramatically improve how they conceptualize and manage social contagions in a variety of 
domains.
2. Fang, X., Hu, P. J. H., Li, Z. L., & Tsai, W. (2013). Predicting adoption probabilities in social networks. Informati
on Systems Research, 24(1), 128-145.
Using data from two large-scale social networks, they demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method. The 
empirical results also suggest that cascade methods primarily using social influence to predict adoption probabilities 
offer limited predictive power and that confounding factors are critical to adoption probability predictions.
