Overview:
This paper gives an approach for automatically identifying messages that contribute to situational awareness. They achieved 
over 80% accuracy on categorizing.

Algorithms:
Naïve Bayes and Maximum Entropy are used in classification.
Classify the data into 4 dimensions. Whether situational awareness or not, objective or not, personal or not, formal or not. 
Using unigrams, bigrams, POS, objective, formal, impersonal as classification features. 
Cross validations in split of 90% and 10%.

Hypothesis:
Tweets that contribute to situational awareness are likely to be written in a style that is objective, impersonal, and formal.

Data:
Roughly 500 tweets during 4 emergency events. RR09, RR10, OK fire, Haiti earthquake. 
Data are both human annotated and using ML method to classification. 
All of them are from individual.
Select 1000 tweets from 3 dataset and mix it into a new dataset. 

Experiment:
1.	Classify the data due to 4 dimensions. 
2.	After classification, list the data distribution and see the relationship with those 4 different kinds of 
attributes.
3.	Combine different features and see the classification accuracy under the 2 classification methods by using 
unigrams as the baseline. 
4.	Evaluate the classification performed across the dataset.

Result:
1.	Situational awareness tweets are more likely to be objective, impersonal and formal. 
2.	By using the single feature among objective, formal and impersonal could increase the accuracy of the classification. 
Combine them together would get the highest average accuracy among all the dataset. 
3.	Classifier could achieve good accuracy when using into a dataset of same sort of disaster. 

Assumption:
1.	People would post information about the disaster on the social network site when they are in the disaster area. 
2.	The information in the tweets would inflect the real situation about the disaster area. 

Synthesis:
I think if we use this method to lead the rescue, it would base on a bias. They would ignore those area that were s
eriously destroyed and people have no mood to send tweets or the network itself were died. And also, I think the 
dataset of this research is a little too small, it may not reflect the real situation. For the future research, I think 
we could concentrate more about how the classifier works in the different kinds of disaster or the different locations 
that the disaster happens. 

Related paper:
Hughes A L, Palen L. Twitter adoption and use in mass convergence and emergency events[J]. International Journal of 
Emergency Management, 2009, 6(3): 248-260.
This paper is the pervious of this paper. They suggest that Twitter messages sent during these types of events contain
more displays of information broadcasting and brokerage, and they observe that general Twitter use seems to have evolved 
over time to offer more of an information sharing purpose.

Vieweg S, Hughes A L, Starbird K, et al. Microblogging during two natural hazards events: what twitter may contribute to 
situational awareness[C]//Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. ACM, 2010: 1079-1088.
This paper is also a previous work. It focuses on finding the features that may contribute to the situation awareness. 
This paper is also a previous work. It focuses on finding the features that may contribute to the situation awareness. 

